README.md, before:

# Data Science Toolbox: Assignment 1

[![Binder](http://mybinder.org/badge.svg)](http://beta.mybinder.org/v2/gh/dj311/data-science-toolbox-1/master)

## Research
A summary/working document of research can be found in [./research.md](./research.md).

## Python Setup
Requires a working Python 3 installation (tested with 3.6.5). Given that, the following steps will setup a virtual environment with all the right bits:
  1. Create a new virtual env:`python3 -m venv python-env` (use `./python-env` since it's included in `.gitignore`).
  2. Activate it in your current shell: `source ./python-env/bin/activate`.
  3. Install the dependencies: `python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt`.
  4. Activate `nbstripout` to automatically strip output from jupyter notebooks when committing: `nbstripout --install`.


## Data Sources and Licensing
The following files were sourced from Mike Sconzo at [SecRepo](https://secrepo.com) under a [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/):
  - [./resources/Zeus.csv](./resources/Zeus.csv)
  - [./resources/OPCleaver.csv](./resources/OPCleaver.csv)
  - [./resources/VirusShare.csv](./resources/VirusShare.csv)

The Bro log dataset available [here](http://www.secrepo.com/Security-Data-Analysis/Lab_2/http.log.zip) This is the http.log referenced in Time series of Http bro log, released under the [Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/)

Commit message:

readme: add instructions for assessment

README.md, after:

# Data Science Toolbox: Assignment 1

[![Binder](http://mybinder.org/badge.svg)](http://beta.mybinder.org/v2/gh/dj311/data-science-toolbox-1/master)

## Assessment
Along with the working documents in this repo, the final team report can be found at [./report.ipynb](./report.ipynb). This can be run locally (after following the instructions under [Python Setup](#python-setup)) or in a temporary [Binder](https://mybinder.org/) notebook using the "Launch Binder" button above.

The final report does not have the cell outputs included. Selecting `Kernel > Restart 7 Run All` in the notebook menu should generate the final document.


## Research
A summary/working document of research can be found in [./research.md](./research.md).


## Python Setup
Requires a working Python 3 installation (tested with 3.6.5). Given that, the following steps will setup a virtual environment with all the right bits:
  1. Create a new virtual env:`python3 -m venv python-env` (use `./python-env` since it's included in `.gitignore`).
  2. Activate it in your current shell: `source ./python-env/bin/activate`.
  3. Install the dependencies: `python3 -m pip install -r requirements.txt`.
  4. Activate `nbstripout` to automatically strip output from jupyter notebooks when committing: `nbstripout --install`.


## Data Sources and Licensing
The following files were sourced from Mike Sconzo at [SecRepo](https://secrepo.com) under a [Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/):
  - [./resources/Zeus.csv](./resources/Zeus.csv)
  - [./resources/OPCleaver.csv](./resources/OPCleaver.csv)
  - [./resources/VirusShare.csv](./resources/VirusShare.csv)

The Bro log dataset available [here](http://www.secrepo.com/Security-Data-Analysis/Lab_2/http.log.zip) This is the http.log referenced in Time series of Http bro log, released under the [Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike 4.0 International License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/4.0/)
